elijah price comic book art dealer has
brittle bone disease
he develops a theory based on comic book
stories that there must be someone
unbreakable at the opposite extreme
david dunn a former star football
quarterback turned security guard
becomes the sole survivor of a train
crash which kills 130 others while
remaining completely unharmed
after a memorial service for the victims
he finds a note on his car windshield
asking if he has ever been ill and
inviting him to elijah's art gallery
limited edition
david realizes that he has indeed never
been ill and goes with his young son
joseph to meet elijah he is unsettled
and leaves when elijah proposes his
theory of real-life superheroes
but later curious finds he can bench
press 350 pounds
well above his expectation joseph
idolizes his father believing him to be
a superhero
although david maintains he is just an
ordinary man
david challenges elijah's theory with an
incident from his childhood when he
almost drowned
elijah suggests that highlights the
common convention whereby superheroes
have a weakness
contending that david's might be water
david recalls the car accident that
ended his athletics career
in which he had been unharmed and ripped
off the car door to rescue his
girlfriend
audrey he had used the accident as an
excuse to quit football because audrey
disliked the violence of the sport
under elijah's influence david realizes
that his natural instinct for picking
out dangerous people during security
checks
is actually extrasensory perception
consciously honing this ability
david discovers that touch contact with
people permits him visions of criminal
acts they have committed
as people bump into him in a crowd he
senses crimes they have perpetrated
theft assault rape and he finds one he
can act on
a sadistic janitor who has invaded a
family home killed the father
and is now holding the wife and two
children captive
he follows the janitor to the victim's
house and frees the children
the janitor pushes him into the swimming
pool where he nearly drowns as he cannot
swim but is rescued by the children
he kills the janitor with a choke hold
but discovers the mother is already dead
the next morning david shows joseph a
newspaper article featuring a sketch of
the anonymous hero whom joseph
recognizes as his father
and tearfully promises to keep his
secret
david meets elijah's mother who explains
the difference between villains who
fight heroes with physical strength and
those who use their intelligence
elijah asks david to shake his hand
which reveals that elijah was
responsible for numerous high-profile
accidents
including david's train crash while
seeking a superhero rival
an emotional elijah tells a horrified
david now that we know who you are
i know who i am indicating that he is
destined to be an arch villain and
david's nemesis
he adopts his childhood nickname mr
glass
as his supervillain moniker david
reports elijah's criminal attacks to the
police
and elijah is confined to a psychiatric
hospital for
the criminally insane